Create .octdec() term entry (#4033)
Codecademy/docs: content/php/concepts/math-functions/terms/octdec/octdec.md

---
Title: 'octdec()'
Description: 'Returns given octal numbers to decimal numbers.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development' 
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Math'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> Shortly, it means converting an octal number to a decimal number. In PHP, **octdec()** function is a built-in function that calculates the decimal equivalent of an octal number. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **octdec()** function is a built-in function that calculates the decimal equivalent of an octal number. It accepts the octal number as the only argument.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo

> octdec($value);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
octdec(value);
```

```

> - `value`: It's an octal number given as a parameter to the function in string format. If an invalid character is passed, it is ignored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `value`: An octal number given as a parameter to the function in string format. If an invalid character is passed, it is ignored.
```

> It accepts a single parameter as an argument, which has to be a string representing the octal number to convert to a decimal number. It will be ignored if you try to pass an invalid character as an argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `value`: It's an octal number, given as a parameter to the function, in the string format. If an invalid character is passed, it is ignored.
```

## Example

The example below uses the `octdec()` function to convert an octal number to its decimal value.

```php
<?php

>  echo octdec("65");
>  echo octdec("3098");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
echo octdec("65") . "<br>";
echo octdec("3098") . "<br>";
```
To print the output like below, you'll need `<br>` tags so the next statement will print on a new line.

?>
```

This example will gives the following output:

```shell

> 53
> 1043

Reviewer: ```suggestion
53
24
```
Try running the example code block and cross-check. I got this output.

```

## Codebyte Example

> Run your code and try converting decimal numbers from octal numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the code below to get a better idea of how the `octdec()` function works:
```
